+++
type = "notecard"
title = "A Better Launcher Script for JetBrains IDEs on Linux"
description = "Suppress Logs and Prevent IDE Closing on Shell Exit" 


tags = ['JetBrains', 'Linux', 'Shell']

date = 2026-01-25

+++

## Problem

JetBrains IDEs - IntelliJ IDEA, GoLand, PyCharm, RustRover, WebStorm, etc. - ship with launcher scripts.
These are generated by the Toolbox installer or can be mounted manually.

But the installer scripts have issues - particularly on Linux.

First, the scripts spew debug information into the shell they are launched from,
rendering it unusable for the duration of the time the IDE is open.

Second, and even more inconvenient,
the IDE will exit abruptly when if the terminal is closed for any reason,
as the spawned IDE process is attached to the shell session.

## Quick Solution

### 1. Wrap the Official IDE Launcher Script

The wrapper script will call the original launcher script and pass through all arguments,
but suppress all the log output and detach the IDE process from the shell session.

For GoLand, we can create a wrapper named `goland.sh`:

```shell
#! /usr/bin/env bash

~/.local/share/JetBrains/Toolbox/scripts/goland "$@" > /dev/null 2>&1 &
disown
```

Ensure the location of the official script is correct -
the default for IDEs installed on Linux with JetBrains Toolbox is `~/.local/share/JetBrains/Toolbox/scripts`,
which contains a script for each IDE: `idea`, `rustrover`, `webstorm`, etc.

### 2. Add Wrapper Script to `PATH` and Make Executable 

As the contents of `~/.local/share/JetBrains/Toolbox/scripts` are managed by the Toolbox app,
we want to use a different location.
Conventional choices for user-defined scripts include `/usr/local/bin` or `~/.local/bin`.

Ensure the new script is executable:
```shell
chmod +x ~/.local/bin/goland.sh
```

And ensure the location is added to your `PATH` by your shell rc files(`.bashrc`, `.zshrc`, etc.):
```shell
export PATH="$HOME/.local/bin:$PATH"
```
